So you caught him here.
Hmm.
Am I okay?
Yeah.
President's fine.
Huh?
You're good.
Magnificent.
Yeah, yeah, but I want to make sure.
I don't want, because she's the first one who's going to tell me where,
you couldn't get somebody to just do that, or fix that, or drag that, or.
Hmm.
Yeah.
We'll go start there, if you give us an introduction to yourself, please.
Yes.
Ready?
Okay.
My name is Roy Grant.
I was born in Jamaica and came to the United Kingdom at the age of 19 years of age.
I had a wonderful childhood marred by affliction, but of a good, good parentage.
My parents sent me here to the United Kingdom at the age of 19,
because after leaving school, I loved to do engineering, and I began my engineering apprenticeship.
Arriving in this country, oh my goodness, what a change.
And so much, so different from what I'm used to.
Cold wind, my hands, my fingers numbed, my body shivers.
And I arrived in Southampton by a ship called the SSB Gona, 11 days a night aboard the ship,
which wasn't a very nice experience.
But when I arrived at Southampton, we got on a train to Victoria, and then from Victoria,
I went to Birmingham and there to live with my cousin.
I spent the first week getting used to the family I now become, to adopt,
and the home that is going to be my own for no, well, in fact,
on my application to come to this country, I had to put on it, I'll be here for five years.
So, at that point, I would have been, all my intention that I was going to spend five years in the country,
and then I'll be going back to Jamaica.
However, I had the first week to get used to the place as it were,
and the family that was about to adopt me as their own.
And after a week, I was taken to what they call the labour exchange in those days,
which is the employment department, the job centre, which is now known as,
and sign on for a job.
And at the same time, I was purchasing the evening news to see what vacancies were available.
Anyway, between these two outlets, I saw quite a number of vacancies for apprentices for engineering,
and I thought, this is great, I wouldn't have a problem here.
However, I would send for applications, and applications would come along,
but in them days, the post was pretty good.
And furthermore, in some of these notices for engineers, there used to be a little write in there,
which you fill in, and you get through to the engineer works that you seek out very quickly.
Anyway, when I received some sort of confirmation that my request was being looked at,
and I fill in these applications, send them back, they would quickly send to me and say,
well, come in for an interview.
And this is the strangest thing is, when I remember speaking to one or two people at this job,
at the works, and they were so enthusiastic about me, because my English wasn't any different from what it is now.
So they wouldn't realize that I was black, and it was just a matter of Bromie English,
because it's not really straight English in many places.
And they say, come in. But when I got there, and two words, you know, where do you live? I said.
How long have you been in the country? I said, well, a month.
And then they say, well, who did you learn your engineering with? I say, in Jamaica.
I say, well, I'm sorry, but we can't have you because you have a broken apprenticeship.
And I was turned down, dreadful.
And this repeat itself on several occasions. So I was really fed up.
In fact, what is the worst thing about this discriminative attitude?
I remember going to the door of a few engineering places, and in those days, they had a window like a hatchet.
And like a hatchet, you slide this hatchet door open, and the receptionist or whoever it is speak to you.
And I remember walking up to the door, and the door was in a position where you could see the hatchet window.
And I could see the lady sitting at the desk looking out through the hatchet window to see who was coming through the door.
And as soon as she sees me, the hatchet went, clunk, shuts tight.
And she walked away and shut the door behind her in her room because they didn't want any black people.
It later come to my knowledge that, you see, engineering or precision engineering in the 60s were the rose-roised trade for the poor man,
those who couldn't send their kids to university or who didn't pass the 11 plus.
And for a black man to take those spaces was very rare.
Furthermore, the workers or the tradesmen who have a boy child who would want to continue being an engineer would put their names down,
just like they used to do in the schools, would put their names on as a child so that when they leave school, they go straight into that engineering work.
So you have father, grandfather, grandchildren, all family in that engineering.
Well, I was so fed up that I wrote to my cousin who lived in Wales, and I told her what the situation was,
and, you know, it's discrimination and nobody wants to give me a job because I wasn't intent to do anything else.
And she said, no, as far as she's concerned, people in Wales are very, very nice, they're very cooperative and so on.
So come down. And I came to Wales.
How old were you?
When I came to Wales, I came to Wales on the, yes, I came to Wales, I can remember now, the last week in July, 1962, and just on my 20th birthday.
And it was what they call the two weeks shut down holiday, the summer holidays.
And the newspaper came out, which was the, I can't remember if it's the Echo or the August, came out or the early August,
and I read it and it says, engineer apprentice wanted.
And I didn't stop to think, I just, and there was a telephone number, and I picked up and I rang.
And this gentleman said to me, yes, we want an apprentice, we want apprentices, you know, if you want to come along.
I went and I saw the form and because at this engineering work, which was grinding engineering,
and he said to me, yes, but I can't give you the yes today.
You have to come back a following week and see the owner and they will give you yes.
Well, I went back the following week and you wouldn't believe it.
I was on top form because they said yes, I, they would take me on.
I was so pleased.
And that was the beginning of my future as an engineering, position engineering apprenticeship in Wales.
So I am grateful to come into Wales because I succeed in doing what I set out to do.
Now you have been working in engineering, you have grown up.
When did your wife or your fiance come over?
Well, in those early days, what the government, the government was stopping everyone from coming.
But if you have dependent relatives or your fiance, they could come.
However, for fiancees, fiancees could come with one premises that you have to get married within three months of arriving in the country.
And so it wasn't long before I put everything I could together to send for my fiance.
And the following year in 1963, she came and we got married in December of that year.
Well, it wasn't long after we made our life together and we ended up having four kids, wonderful children.
One girl and three boys, well, plus one other boy, make five kids.
And yes, however, I don't know if this interview is the right place to do it, but I have to tell you this.
Whenever everyone who succeeds, every black person who came here during the 60s and succeed in doing anything that is very important,
they have to sacrifice something.
And unfortunately, my family, unwittingly, I sacrificed my family to develop my engineering skill because I have to work twice as hard as the white man.
And I had to be twice as clever as the white man because within a short time, the introduction of nylon to the manufacturing industry, especially textile,
create the need for wrapping cutting tools.
And I was the man who was rushed to develop that wrapping cutting tool in tungsten carbide,
which makes the company and a lot of other people very rich.
But I was a nobody to the English. I was black. I wasn't rich.
Furthermore, I have no right to say, to have any say in the development as what would I think in saying I could take ownership of the fact that this is what I've done as evidence.
No, everything was pointed out to the ownership of the owner of that engineering.
So I can only say it with conviction that I've done it, but I cannot embrace a certificate to say, well, this is what I have done and I can be and I am satisfied that I've been compensated.
No, but I feel good because engineering is what I love and I have done it so no one can take that away from me.
When you say Wales, where are you?
Wales, well, I say that I talk about Birmingham carries a lot of treated me with resentment and discrimination.
It doesn't mean to say that there is not there wasn't discrimination and resentment in Wales.
There was, but it was undermined a lot different from in Birmingham.
Birmingham, it was on the doorstep. In Wales, it's under the carpet.
And the different was a subtlety because, for instance, during my engineering work and I was developing this stuff so rapidly and to compensate me and to keep me within that work environment so that I wouldn't be poached or go anywhere else.
I was rapidly promoted from charging to foreman to production manager.
And I remember, you know, one of the men who made friends with me and he was the one who gave me the first cup of tea.
And he said, he went to the, this is what the foreman told me after the event.
And he apparently he told the foreman, he went to the foreman and asked the foreman if this black bastard come to give me authority, a job or what should I do?
And the foreman was looked at him and this is what and I quote what they are saying.
The foreman said, when I give you a job to do, what do you do?
And he answered, he carried it out. So he said, you know that I'm a Polish man.
He said, yes. So the foreman answered and said, well, what is the difference?
And the strangest thing is I did not know anything about this that went on.
It was only when the foreman then took me in his confident and advised me to be very careful and to be very straight with everyone.
Don't give anyone the right, the chance to build up any resentment against me.
And he start to share out all these things that might affect me, might affect my project, my progress, you know, in becoming a good boss as it were then.
When was then the next turning point?
The next turning point is I reached a production manager.
I've been having to and this is the this is this is the underline of the discrimination comes in.
They brought in five different other people to take on the job that I have been doing.
In other words, to to manage me in the work and set them up as production manager.
And then I had to teach those guys what to tell me what to do.
It was ridiculous. So after a time, I just got fed up and I said, well, I'm changing my arm.
I'm changing from engineering and I went into into taxi proprietary and I was a taxi proprietor for over five years.
And and, you know, it was very successful.
But there again, to make it successful, I sacrifice a lot of time building it because I was black and no one wants to to call a black taxi man to take their their daughter to church on the way for their wedding and all like that or to take them out when they're properly dressed.
No one wants a black man to drive them or.
And it takes a while to build up the business.
And do you and during that time, I sometime have neglected my children because when they want me to take them to sports and so on.
So I was busy working to, you know, and helping somebody else or something like that.
So I have I have a lot of regret in the fact that I did not.
I did not equate the important.
And this is what I'm telling you guys.
No matter how much you want something, when you have a family, try to mesh what you're doing that is equally divided between what you want and what your family is required of you.
Because it can come back to bite you on the ass.
And I'm not saying my kids resent me now, but they could, you know.
They they they it's hard to forget.
You know, I was speaking about the blindness.
Yeah.
Well, I've been being a taxi propriety.
It wasn't long after, you know, people take advantage and they smashing up the vehicle left, right and center.
And I decided to take a change and that change led me into into.
Develop catering a mobile catering business.
And this mobile catering business was was supplying.
Break break meals, break snacks for the workers, because in those days is very few.
Companies, manufacturers have a canteen whereby, you know, people could go into and.
And get something to eat.
They would have to send someone to up to the shop.
So it's a it's all, you know, the company would be we would be losing at least three quarter of an hour for the person to go to the shop.
At least three quarters of an hour every day.
It's a lot of time over the week.
And I was going in and I was taking in all these snacks for these people so that they could stay within the workplace and have their snacks and so on.
And that went on for a few years and I was very successful at it.
However, like.
The overall of over 20 years of of hard work and and.
Stress.
Create diabetes.
And the diabetes.
Become so great taking over my body so much that it caused hemorrhage in my right eye and rendered me blind.
Completely blind. Oh, you heard me say my right eye.
So what about my left eye? Well, like I said in the beginning.
I had a good childhood, but it was flawed.
And that's when I was two years of age, I lost sight to an accident in my left eye.
So I only had one eye, even though I was insistent on being an engineer and was successful at it.
So diabetes cause hemorrhage on the optic nerves in my right eye.
And I was completely blind.
And my my mobile catering business went.
I could no longer drive.
And I lost my license.
I lost my business and.
I lost my head because the shock.
Look at me and he explained something to you.
I just I just finished having my Sunday dinner.
And we sat at the dinner table and we were all happy having a laugh and a joke.
And I pick up my pipe because we smoke a pipe.
I smoke a pipe by then.
I clean the pipe and in them days, you know, you smoke in the house, you smoke around the table.
And and I clean my pipe.
And no before I could fill my pipe and bend in my head like this, cleaning it out.
It's as though I'm looking at a piece of glass like this and somebody drop a tip of well, I didn't know it was blood.
Something red.
And it was just flowing over this piece of glass.
And it flows and until all I could see was.
Blaring light around the square ends of this glass.
And that was it. So I ran in the bathroom, washed my face and all that.
And there's nothing happening.
I was so shocked. I don't know.
How the hell did I get into the bathroom and I couldn't see? I was blind.
How did I get there?
But I got there to the bathroom, washed my face and nobody will my aunt.
Until this day, I can't tell you how I got there.
Well, the trauma and that's where the trauma began because I went to the hospital and there was no one there to tell me.
How am I going to see again or if I will ever see again or they can do anything.
So I was sent home.
The following day I went back.
Same thing.
And it took three days until the specialist came back from where all the day where he were.
And he came back and then they begin to panic.
And start to phone up all the different hospitals to find out who was the best person to clean.
To take away this sort of mushroom thing that left on the optic nerves from the bleeding.
Anyway, it took I think about three weeks or so for the hospital to make an appointment when for this procedure to take place.
And it did take place.
And the first time I went and they done it, which was Moorfield in London.
It didn't work.
So disappointed.
It took another six weeks for them to do this surgery again, once again.
And that time this time, the minute they took away the bandage and off my eye.
What I can only describe as pink balloon, pink jelly.
I was looking through a glass of pink jelly.
And from there on, my sight began to get stronger and stronger.
And you know, I was discharged and went home.
However, I couldn't remember how to pronounce a word.
My brain, I was like, I couldn't write, I couldn't do nothing.
I couldn't remember things.
I was like a vegetable.
However, it took, it took months.
And the advice was to do as much as you can with your eyes so that you will train it to, you will exercise it.
Keep exercising it and get it so that it becomes to strengthen it so it's stronger.
I don't know whether they were right or wrong.
But I was doing it.
And I did all the things that they asked me to do to strengthen the muscles in the eye and the eye and all like that.
Until I could see what was happening on the television.
And that was, you know, after a few months, that was really, really good news.
But my brain was something else.
However, my children didn't say to me, well, see what happened to you now.
They didn't.
They were there for me.
And my family were there for me.
And I'm so grateful to them.
So that was the beginning of my, of the real change in my growing, in my life.
Because I have to learn to start living off pension and not able to work.
In fact, I can tell you this.
1996, I have learned, since 1996, I have learned a pay packet.
I have learned my hand out for a pay packet.
1996 till 2000, till 2000, I was, I was, 1998, 1998 till 2000, I was literally blind.
And I was registered blind in 2020, in 1998, because I could no longer drive a car.
My license was taken away from me.
I couldn't go anywhere by then.
I couldn't see in the dark.
Anywhere I go, I have to have someone in me.
However, as the site began to develop, my friends, the initiative, Community First Initiative was playing a big role in Wales.
As they identified Dufferin, where I live, as one place of high deprivation.
And a few people were creating a group to meet, to help, to meet those needs.
And they asked me to join in.
Now, my speciality is in engineering.
And as I have been walking the street before I went blind, and even with the little sight that I had,
I used to see those kids take anything they could get all of, whether a piece of iron, a spanner, or a machete.
Well, not so much a machete, but the kitchen knife.
And they were hammering and cutting and doing whatever they liked to these precision pieces of engineering.
And it really grieves me.
So I set about and I developed a community psych-care club that teaches the children how to repair their bikes in a safe environment.
And also create a psych club to take these kids riding, take them out into the countryside.
We said, take them out into the countryside for bike ride.
The council was on board, the police was on board, Alford was on board, and Youth Service was on board.
So much so.
And then I put a, and this is the big thing, I put a big ad in the Argos to say that if you have an old bike
or something that you no longer use, we will pick it up.
And we used to pick up these bikes from all over the place.
Furthermore, the police used to have a lot of bikes that people steal and no one claimed them.
We used to get those bikes and we used to strip them and use the good parts of them and build up good parts.
So it was really, really good.
So that's where my volunteering service began.
Yeah, alongside volunteering, of course, when, like I said, I was encouraged to exercise my eye.
And of course, by exercising my eye, and of course, my brain was all over the place.
I couldn't remember things, I couldn't even remember how to pronounce a word and so on and so on.
I went back to, I take up the option of going back to the high school during the holiday to learn how to read and write and all like that.
And because this obsession to see again, to be back to where I was,
I create an obsession to write, to strengthen my eye and to get my brain into gear.
And this becomes, or it became a real obsession to write.
I just could not stop writing.
And the more I write, well, the better it became.
And today, I can tell, you know, for those who don't know,
if you were to look under the heading of Roy McPenfield,
you will have some idea of the number of books, novels that I've written, plays,
plays that have been performed in Pill Millenium, New Seasons Church, Burleigh Academy, Riverfront, Doleman Theatre.
Yeah. So quite a number of plays and quite a number of magazines,
quite a number of books I have written.
However, again, once the obsession take hold, family gets squeezed.
And so I don't know if I never learned, but was I selfish?
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
But there was no one there to point and say, well, either you never learn or you're unselfish.
I just did what I felt I had to do.
And so, whilst I'm doing all these, whilst the need to write, I began, and like I said,
they said to write a story of my journey.
I wrote that story. I was so pleased to do it in the first place.
And then I've been joined another group, which was the Black Heritage Association,
Kumere, which is an offspring to the Southeast Race Relations Council,
and sister to Gabo, which is a grant association for volunteer.
And at the time, there was a then chair.
Usually at the end of each year, they would have a celebration function,
or so many times a year they have a sort of what they call a concert, and people would tell stories.
And Lester would record these stories.
Now, being as I was in that state of obsessive writing, I went to Lester and I said,
Lester, I will write, I will record and write these stories,
regardless of the fact that you are doing it on tape.
Because if we are doing these stories for the generation in the future,
it's not going to be easy for them to get to the tape that you are keeping there,
because you will be only bringing those tapes out once a year.
Furthermore, those tapes, if more than one person is using those tapes, they get broken, they get, you know,
and only a limited number of people could see those tapes at any given time.
If you have it written, it can be seen by a lot of people more often,
and it can be easily transported, and mothers and parents can read it to their children,
you know, their stories, or the children can read it to their friends,
and it will be better transportable, and it will serve for a longer time.
And everybody agreed with that.
And I set about with, what do you call it, is it Omega? No.
I set about with a little handheld recorder, and I managed to do 16 recordings.
However, let me tell you something, bro.
It was very difficult having people to tell any stories at all.
People did not want to tell their stories.
You see, black people have been so down-beaten and trod,
that they didn't want to start raking up any stories of how they might feel, or how they were treated,
or the situation from which they came, because they want to pursue a different life.
And it's not like today, when nobody is ashamed to say, well, my parents are poor.
Years ago, you don't want to tell anyone that your parents are poor,
because they would treat you worse than how they should have.
So therefore, in those days, people didn't like to talk about they were poor,
or their life story, or they didn't get the education that is now people take for granted.
So therefore, it was very difficult.
But anyway, I persist, and I did 16 stories.
And the 16 stories created the first literature exhibition in Newport
for the 2010 celebration at the library.
The year when the Ryder Cup and Newport celebrate the most prestigious event of all time,
you had, because it was the year when Barack Obama becomes president, and he visited Newport.
So you can imagine, it was a wonderful time.
And all these stories, and all these books, and all the things that I've done, don't forget, they are all in the library.
You can go there, and you can see them.
And my story is packed to the rafter within all the establishments, like the Aberystwyth and so on.
So that is the highlight, as it were, then.
However, at the same time, like I said before, the Welsh government bringing the Community First initiative,
at the same time, there was no provision for black minority ethnic, 50 plus, all minority ethnic people.
There was a little bit of provision for what they call a Young People's Partnership Board,
which was primarily dealing with the Somalis.
But there was nothing for black people, especially Caribbean people.
And at that point in time, when it was Giavro who was the lead in presenting the case,
that achieved some funding for both the Somali people and with the church and other groups trying to get funding,
or some recognition for the plight of minority ethnic people.
They were lucky, and the Welsh government decided, yes, we will recognize minority ethnic people.
And they wanted evidence.
And David Phillips.
No, first of all, it was Omar Ali.
He did a study on the Somali people and the situation and their condition and the need for some sort of funding and help.
And then when the Welsh government decided that right overall, Community First is needed to acknowledge these people need some help,
David Phillips was asked to present a study, and he used the Omar Ali present survey plus the survey of Newport as a whole and minority ethnic.
And that was presented to the Welsh government by Robert Lenbeck and Brian Hadash and Willem, is it Willem?
The then manager for Giavro, and they successfully had five people to carry out seminars, five workers to carry out seminars to identify the shortfall, the need.
That was the need that was created for help for people in community.
And so you add in health, you add in housing, you add in education and so on, make five people.
And like I said, whilst I was carrying out the writing of the 16 storybooks for Caribbean people, I had an application.
I was given an application from SUREC at the time and the BBC wanted application for membership to their council.
It was called the BBC Broadcasting Corporation.
Anyway, it was the governance unit and I was in the governance unit, I was in governance for five years.
And within that five years, there was discussion about people with least voice.
And I thought this is something new and this is something that I like to do.
And so when the seminars take place and the search for the different bodies of different people who needed to have a voice, I joined the seminars.
And 50 plus network was created in 2008.
And in 2008, the black minority 50 plus network was created through GAVO.
And I was a part of that, I was part of that group.
And we done the training and we done the introduction and they given us, because what the Welsh Government wanted, the Welsh Government did not want a support worker or what you call worker to lead people.
They wanted people to lead or to carry out what their main, to address their needs, to say what they want, to give people a voice.
And so I was very interested in people letting their voices heard.
So then how do we get from the black minority, I think, from the 50s group network to the black minority?
Yeah, and this is the heart of this conversation here, is that in 2008, like I said, the group was created.
And in 2009, but 2008, 2009, I was still working on those 16 books for the 2010 thing.
But in 2009, I was elected chair for the group, even though I was still working on a, didn't mean to say that my eye was better.
And I was back to square one. I was still doing damage into my eye, but I was obsessed.
And the problem is all the people at that time, nobody had the experience of running a group except for Vanessa.
All the other people, they were all people who have interest in the community or in business also.
But to run a group, it was a different matter. So I was elected chair.
And of course, being elected chair, I had to create all the paperwork.
Everything was, I created everything in the first, between, well, while I was doing the exhibition and all that,
I was still working on the creation of the group.
Because you see, if you were to look at the 2010 celebration, that will be the 2010 celebration, it's booklets, an exhibition, which you find in the library.
It plays a big role in the group creation, because the same, most of the people within the group were part of that exhibition.
So was the Somali young people. And so they both grew up together.
And age alive come into force in 2012, because after the 2010 exhibition, and black minority ethnic 50 plus people begin to like what they see,
all of these people coming together each week and discussing what they want and what they don't want.
What happened is that we decided, well, it was probably me.
I put it to the membership that already you have five different groups, which is black minority ethnic, so and so for health, so and so black minority ethnic for education, black minority ethnic for.
So I said, this is too complicated. It's going to cause mix-ups. So let's change our name. Let's model our name and give ourselves a brand.
So all sorts of names, I put all sorts of names, all sorts of names comes up and we opt for age alive.
Age alive, two little word, which means respect for the individual, regardless of religion or ethnicity, preference, black or white, brown or whatever.
Yeah, doesn't matter. Respect for the individual is what matters.
If you can't respect the individual, you cannot accept the individual as an individual. You have to respect that.
And so that is age alive was born on respect.
And so we created age alive. And that was my. That was my.
That again is another obsession. That was my obsession to make it successful.
And I am. And again, once again, I have to be thankful to my children.
They didn't run the street and say my dad is not my dad because he don't do anything for me.
He do it doing it for other people and not for me.
You know, and I am so grateful to them for putting up with me doing so much stuff for other people.
And they didn't get what they supposed to have.
So age alive has got the best of my the best years of my life.
And age I have I have with a few other with a few other dedicated people carry the membership through to a very successful end.
Well, not a very successful end to a very successful place where we can sit down and we can talk about our stories.
Age alive have created the platform where Asian people can tell their story,
knowing that their their contribution to society is being given a worthwhile platform.
Well, the one thing that the one thing that I think is very important to me,
and I think it's very important to me, is that the age of age alive is very important to me.
Well, the one thing that the one thing that I I I feel I failed in,
I failed in not being able to have more of the male group within the male within the group.
I failed. I I feel I have failed because although we started with four male people in the group,
we it's gently petered down to just me.
And what the real cause for that is it is too young to tap that cause to to to to the dismantle
the philosophy behind the reason why male don't that too much in depth.
You know, it's a cultural thing for which I which I would not want to interfere.
It does for another generation.
But that is my only failure as far as I'm concerned.
But I am also thankful to the old souls, the family for giving those people who are members of age alive
the opportunity to have their voices heard.
This is the the the the biggest triumph of this group for those people to have their voices heard,
because no one no one of those people in age members Asian men in in in can have can speak out
unless the family accept that they will do so.
So, you know, so I am very, very young.
I am very pleased that the work that I have done and the and what I have introduced the group to
to does not detract detract these people from their cultural beliefs and and practices.
Speaking of voices and stories, can you tell us about some voices to project?
Today, I can with with I can with pride say to you that to celebrate our well,
well, it's more than 10 years, but to celebrate 10 years of what the skeptics said, it will never work.
Today, we can we can lift our heads I and said, yes, we have surpassed those remarks.
And those remarks are labeled that not as reminders, but for the next generation to add to to to take note of
and to realize that we have overcome those milestones because this project have created the platform for people to set to give this story
in in silent voice. It didn't it didn't take me to do it.
It take a lot of people, a lot of time, a lot of convincing to to make it happen.
But it is it is it is about to be explored in on the scene for everyone to to see and to read and to enjoy.
And silent voice will help the younger generation to understand a little bit more about togetherness.
And and then you have the full story of the building of Age Alive in It Will Never Work.
That is a comprehensive story. Newport and and Newport, how it manages to not surrender,
but to incorporate needs, requests and the right for their voices to be heard in the society that they're trying to develop.
We are also thankful to their help in making this this this project a reality.
And we are grateful for every help that is being given by many people who thought this will never happen.
We are thankful.
Personally, personally, my for me, I have given it I have given I have given it my best.
And like I said, my greatest regret and when I say regret is not regret in saying that I've done something wrong and I need forgiveness.
My greatest regret is that I did not have someone to point out to me a if you continue to to be obsessive and to give everything you've got to this or to that.
Your children are going to be upset in the years to come.
I did not have that person because I could see doing something that makes someone else that bring happiness to someone else or to be or give justice to someone else or to or to make someone else's life.
That less stressful or to help someone to find their way through.
It makes me happy.
But little did I know that it wasn't what makes my children happy.
Because in me, I feel that what I know what I do, it was for me and it would be for my children.
And I I don't know, but I regretfully think that they could read my mind and to be understanding as I have been.
But those are my final words and I hope that as the years go by, someone else will come along and make age alive.
And I hope that the next year will be the cornerstone that brings more people together so that people recognize the ones who did the work.
People like Brian, Brian Lenbeck, people like Griffiths, people like even David Phillips, people like Vanessa Cyrille.
You know, those people are grassroot people who have done so much for our community.
And we and hopefully age alive, what age alive have done will help the younger people to make up their mind and to be understanding and to to help their generation to grow.
Thank you.